<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="NMCARS_NMCARS2_topic_242">
   <title outputclass="Heading 4">
      <ph props="autonumber">5219.705-4</ph> Reviewing the subcontracting plan.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="jGIKCM" outputclass="Normal">(d) When evaluating proposed subcontracting plans, contracting officers should obtain advice and recommendations from the cognizant CAO, and shall do so for anysubcontracting plan that does not contain positive goals. The CAO should be specifically requested to review the factors used by the prime contractor to develop the zero goal, the past performance of the offeror on similar requirements, and the current procedures used by the offeror to maximize opportunities for small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business and women-owned small business concerns to participate in its subcontracting program. The contracting officer shall consider the CAO’s findings, including any recommendations, prior to approval of the subcontracting plan. The contract file shall be documented to reflect the review and the contracting officer's final decision relative to an acceptable goal. If the contracting officer determines that a subcontracting plan containing a zero goal is appropriate, the determination shall be approved at a level above the contracting officer and placed in the contract file.</p>
      <p id="biQUpb">(d)(7) Notwithstanding FAR 19.705-4(d)(7), submit pre-award subcontracting plans over $20M to the SBA PCR for review and advisory comments prior to award, in accordance with the Procurement Center Business Operations Plan between the DON and SBA, dated September 20, 2021. The SBA PCR has five (5) business days to complete the review, unless additional time is requested and agreed upon by the contracting officer.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
