<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="NMCARS_5204.2104" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept " domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5204.2104</ph> Waivers.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p id="oXyAxt" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) ASN(RDA), without power of
         redelegation, is the approval authority for waivers. Requests shall be endorsed by the HCA.
         Endorsement authority may be delegated no lower than the Deputy/Assistant Commander for
         Contracts, without power of redelegation. Submit waiver requests for approval via DASN(P)
         by email to <ph class="- topic/ph "><xref href="mailto:usn.pentagon.asstsecnavrdadc.mbx.pabt@us.navy.mil" format="html" scope="external" rev="CHANGE 18-22 JULY 11, 2022" class="- topic/xref ">usn.pentagon.asstsecnavrdadc.mbx.pabt@us.navy.mil</xref></ph> with the subject
         “[Activity Name] NMCARS 5204.2104(a) – Executive Agency Waiver Request (Prohibition on
         Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment)”. Waivers shall
         include:</p>
      <p id="itfYOJ" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) A compelling justification for the additional time to implement the requirements;</p>
      <p id="HiuNGy" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) A full and complete laydown or description of the presences of covered telecommunications or video surveillance equipment or services in the relevant supply chain; and</p>
      <p id="IOvsuB" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) A phase-out plan to eliminate such covered telecommunications equipment or services from the relevant systems.</p>
      <p id="QiCZsy" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b) Waiver requests shall be endorsed
         by the HCA. This authority may be delegated no lower than the Deputy/Assistant Commander
         for Contracts, without power of redelegation. Submit waiver requests for approval via
         DASN(P) by email to <ph class="- topic/ph "><xref href="mailto:usn.pentagon.asstsecnavrdadc.mbx.pabt@us.navy.mil" format="html" scope="external" rev="CHANGE 18-22 JULY 11, 2022" class="- topic/xref ">usn.pentagon.asstsecnavrdadc.mbx.pabt@us.navy.mil</xref></ph> with the subject
         “[Activity Name] NMCARS 5204.2104(b) – DNI Waiver Request (Prohibition on Certain
         Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment).”</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>