<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="NMCARS_5205.303"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5205.303</ph> Announcement of contract awards.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p id="iXvKof" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Public Announcement</i>.</p>
      <p id="CZWlfT" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(i) Report orders or modifications issued by CAOs that exceed the threshold.</p>
      <p id="iQMnQP" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Submit announcement information to the Navy Chief of Information (CHINFO).</p>
      <p id="rmUgWq" outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(S-90) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Security review</i>. Routine contract announcements are exempt from the security review process. However, full security review is required for contract announcements that are accompanied by amplifying press releases.</p>
      <p id="lHiROa" outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(S-91) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Format</i>. To provide for a better understanding by the public, contracting activities should explain in public announcements the specific type of contracting action being awarded (i.e., state that the DON has “awarded a contract”, “exercised an option" or “negotiated a modification" to a contract). Sample formats of announcements for contract modifications are illustrated below. Formats may be altered to suit the circumstances of the contracting action.</p>
      <p id="CZQZZN" outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(a) Contract award. (Name of contractor, city, state) ______________________ was awarded Contract No. <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/> issued by the (activity)<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>
         <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>. The contract was awarded in the amount of $ <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>
         <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>.</p>
      <p id="OUkdcz" outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(b) Contract modification. (Name of contractor, city, state) _________________ is receiving modification number _____________________ to previously awarded Contract No. issued by the (activity) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>
         <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>. This modification increases the value of the basic contract by $ <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>
         <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>, the new total value is $<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>. Insert an explanatory statement similar to one of the following as appropriate:</p>
      <p id="SgnMzp" outputclass="List5" class="- topic/p ">(1) This modification adds the (# of increment, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, second, third, etc.) increment of the (length of multi-year contract, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.</i>, three, four, etc.) year multi-year basic contract.</p>
      <p id="JcmkOk" outputclass="List5" class="- topic/p ">(2) This modification provides for the purchase of an additional quantity of (quantity and item, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.</i>, 500 widgets) being produced under the basic contract. (If appropriate, indicate that the contracting action is the result of a competitive negotiated procurement).</p>
      <p id="IlvYNo" outputclass="List5" class="- topic/p ">(3) This modification provides for the exercise of an option for an additional quantity of (quantity and item, e.g., 200 gadgets) being produced under the basic contract.</p>
      <p id="psFFzw" outputclass="List5" class="- topic/p ">(4) This modification changes the specifications for the (indicate item(s)) being produced under the basic contract. The contractor indicates that the work (is being) (will be) performed at (city and state).</p>
      <p id="Uidkxl" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(D)(5) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Miscellaneous data</i>. Include:</p>
      <p id="maXXdQ" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(a) a statement that the information contained in the announcement is unclassified;</p>
      <p id="yYnkzd" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(b) any areas of sensitivity or high-level interest;</p>
      <p id="KnlXiB" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(c) indication of appropriate coordination to ensure the accuracy of the wording and data to be released.</p>
      <p id="FFaQcu" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(d) the estimated period of performance or delivery schedule.</p>
      <p id="TzRdZG" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(e) the amount of any of the obligated funds that would have expired at the end of the current fiscal year.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
