<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="NMCARS_5217.770" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3">
      <ph props="autonumber">5217.770</ph> Procedures.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="DQVhCG" outputclass="Normal">HCAs shall establish and maintain procedures, for assisted and direct acquisitions, consistent with approval authorities in this section, for reviewing and approving orders placed for supplies and services under non-DoD contracts when the amount of the order exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold. Approval authorities for assisted and direct acquisitions are:</p>
      <p id="CbPJcj" outputclass="Normal">(1) Assisted acquisitions.</p>
      <p id="aUgfok" outputclass="List2">(i) ASN(RDA) is the decision authority for assisted acquisitions exceeding $550,000,000.</p>
      <p id="TClPqQ" outputclass="List2">(ii) DASN(P) is the decision authority for assisted acquisitions exceeding $50,000,000.</p>
      <p id="aHYYuB" outputclass="List2">(iii) The HCA is the decision authority for assisted acquisitions at or below $50,000,000. This authority may be delegated; but, for requirements over $5,000,000, decision authority may only be delegated to an official in the Requiring Organization who is a Flag or General Officer; a member of the SES; or, for a requirement arising from a claimant activity without Flag/General Officer/SES, the commanding officer of that activity.</p>
      <p id="mbQVeh" outputclass="Normal">(2) Direct acquisitions. The business clearance approval official is the decision authority for direct acquisitions.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
