<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="NMCARS_5237.192"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5237.192</ph> Services Acquisition Workshops (SAWs).</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p id="rkeuqy" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) Except for acquisitions identified as a Special Interest, multi-functional teams that support services acquisition requirements with a total acquisition value of $500 million or more or an annual value of $250,000,000 or more, shall participate in a SAW, or an equivalent program. For multiple award, indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts, a SAW is not required for the base contract, but is required for any task order valued at $100 million or more. However, per ASN(RDA) memorandum “Waiver of Certain Services Acquisition Workshops (SAWs) for the Remainder of Fiscal Year 2021,” dated 12 November 2020, except for Special Interest acquisitions, the mandatory requirement to conduct a SAW is waived through 30 September 2021. Multi-functional teams are highly encouraged to apply SAW-like steps to all services acquisitions valued at $10 million or more but less than the values above. If the HCA determines that a waiver is necessary, the waiver request shall be submitted by email to <xref format="mailto"
               href="mailto:SeniorServicesManage.fct@navy.mil"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">
            <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SeniorServicesManage.fct@navy.mil</u>
         </xref>
         <ph class="- topic/ph "> </ph>with the subject “NMCARS 5237.192 - Services Acquisition Workshop (SAW) Waiver Request” for approval by:</p>
      <p id="zFpPJd" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(i) USD(A&amp;S) or ASD(A) for Special Interest acquisitions;</p>
      <p id="CysVwj" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(ii) The DON Senior Services Manager DASN(P) for all other waiver requests.</p>
      <p id="yaXYNt" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b) The waiver request shall include: the rationale for not participating in a SAW; an assessment of the quality of the requirements documents; and, steps taken to reduce costs, improve competition, and shorten acquisition lead times and whether the acquisition has been designated as a special interest acquisition by USD(A&amp;S) or ASD(A).</p>
      <p id="jMZYKD" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(c) Participation in a SAW or approved waiver is required before a services strategy will be approved.</p>
      <p id="p__Hlk63249622" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(d) Multi-functional teams are permitted to use abbreviated SAW options offered by Defense Acquisition University (DAU) when a SAW has already been completed on a recurring services acquisition requirement in the past five years and there is no change in scope. Abbreviated SAW options are considered equivalent programs to a SAW and are encouraged to be used in lieu of requesting a SAW waiver. Other types of mission assistance workshops that are considered equivalent include, Acquisition and Management (DAU iCatalog “WSM”) and DAU’s Source Selection Simulation (“Triple-S”) workshop.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
