<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <topic id="NMCARS_Annex-5"
          ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
          class="- topic/topic ">
      <title outputclass="1 heading Ctr" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">ANNEX 5</ph> – BRIDGE CONTRACT APPROVAL AND REPORTING</title>
      <body class="- topic/body ">
         <p id="VaEoQn" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">1. Approval.</b>
         </p>
         <p id="VwZlxC" class="- topic/p ">Pursuant to 5206.303-1(S-90), the template below shall be used when requesting approval to award a bridge contract.</p>
         <p id="rFwlfW" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION OF BRIDGE CONTRACT</b>
         </p>
         <p id="hwukHO" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">CERTIFICATIONS AND APPROVAL</b>
         </p>
         <p id="EvPDmp" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">TECHNICAL/REQUIREMENTS CERTIFICATION</p>
         <p id="oRtVSC" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">I certify that the facts and representations under my cognizance which are included in this request for authorization of a bridge contract are complete and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.</p>
         <p id="QnGTRU" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Technical Cognizance:</p>
         <p id="fTcrTN" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Requirements Cognizance:</p>
         <p id="XmbfpM" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
         <p id="ebwOtC" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
         <p id="fkTISV" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">CONTRACTING OFFICER CERTIFICATION</p>
         <p id="IkPqEm" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">I certify that the facts and representations for this request for authorization of a bridge contract are accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief.</p>
         <p id="yOqQdU" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
         <p id="nFNLqG" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">ACQUISITION VALUED $700,000 OR LESS</p>
         <p id="dLRBVh" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">ACTIVITY CHIEF OF THE CONTRACTING OFFICE APPROVAL</p>
         <p id="uROpGK" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Upon the basis of the information contained in this request, I hereby approve, as the Activity Chief of the Contracting Office, the negotiation of a bridge contract valued at $700,000 or less as described herein.</p>
         <p id="lvngJZ" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
         <p id="BHpZWg" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
         <p id="yCHwZz" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">ACQUISITION VALUED BETWEEN $700,000 AND $5,500,000</p>
         <p id="jObsRq" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">ECHELON II CHIEF OF THE CONTRACTING OFFICE APPROVAL</p>
         <p id="enasNQ" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Upon the basis of the information contained in this request, I hereby approve, as the Echelon II/III Chief of the Contracting Office, the negotiation of a bridge contract valued between $700,000 and $5,500,000 as described herein.</p>
         <p id="kUEINl" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
         <p id="WGFxon" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">ACQUISITION VALUED GREATER THAN $5,500,000</p>
         <p id="bMLeVh" outputclass="Ctr normal" class="- topic/p ">HEAD OF THE CONTRACTING ACTIVITY APPROVAL</p>
         <p id="Coykdr" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Upon the basis of the information contained in this request, I hereby approve, as the Head of the Contracting Activity, the negotiation of a bridge contract valued greater than $5,500,000 as described herein.</p>
         <p id="c9wtfil" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">
            <b id="ulm7bsix" class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">2. Reporting</b>
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">.</b>
         </p>
         <p id="FmgAjK" class="- topic/p ">a. In accordance with 5206.303-91, HCAs shall provide a bridge contract status update (including rationale for using the bridge contract) to the SSM for bridge contracts awarded due to inadequate planning with a total estimated value at or above $10 million. All bridge contracts are considered awarded due to inadequate planning unless caused by protest, urgency, or delays during evaluation.</p>
         <p id="Wpnpyn" class="- topic/p ">b. The requirement above does not apply to:</p>
         <p id="KCBXot" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Service contracts in support of contingency operations, humanitarian assistance, or disaster relief;</p>
         <p id="YmBIis" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Service contracts in support of a national security emergency declared with respect to a named operation; or</p>
         <p id="NJfTJl" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Service contracts entered into pursuant to an international agreement.</p>
         <p id="WUGsnr" class="- topic/p ">c. Status updates on bridge contracts awarded due to inadequate planning will be used by DASN(P) to notify senior leadership in accordance with Department of Defense Instruction 5000.74, Defense Acquisition of Services, section 4.7 (Timely Planning to Avoid Bridge Contracts).</p>
         <p id="BsESOZ" class="- topic/p ">d. In accordance with NMCARS 5206.303-92, thirty (30) days after the end of each quarter, each HCA shall report data on bridge contract use to DASN(P) using the formatted spreadsheet located at: https://www.secnav.navy.mil/rda/DASN-P/Pages/NMCARS.aspx. Negative reports are required.</p>
         <p id="LmwIor" class="- topic/p "/>
      </body>
   </topic>
</dita>
